Improved Installation Guide for OVE (#11)
ove/ove-docs: docs/INSTALLATION.md

# Installing OVE

OVE needs to be installed before it can be used to control a display. OVE can be installed either by downloading and compiling the source code of the corresponding components or by running a specific installer available on the [**OVE Install**](https://github.com/ove/ove-install/) repository.

All contributors to OVE are encouraged to download and compile the source code. All users of OVE are encouraged to use the OVE installers.

## Installation by running OVE installers

[**OVE Install**](https://github.com/ove/ove-install/) scripts are designed to install OVE into a [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started) environment.

### Prerequisites

* [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started)
* [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### Configuring the environment

The deployment environment needs to be pre-configured before running the OVE installers. This involves setting up ports and environment variables.

> The ports are pre-configured to a list of common defaults, but can be changed based on end-user requirements. Each port or port-range is defined as a mapping `HOST_PORT:CONTAINER_PORT`. Only the host ports can be changed, and it is important to note that **container ports must not be changed**.

Reviewer: 'as the pm2 configuration file specifies a specific container port on which each service will run'?

Author: Not just on PM2 but also on the Dockerfiles. If the containers were pre-built, you cannot change this anyway, so there is no point in telling the user what to change.

#### Environment variables

> Listed below are the environment variables that can be configured before installing OVE:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before installing OVE you must set the environment variables:
```

Author: Technically, you are not setting the environment variables in the docker-compose script, but configuring what they would be _set to_ when the script runs. I have taken your suggestion but replace `set` with `configure`.

> * `OVE_HOST` - Hostname (or IP address + port) of OVE core

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `OVE_HOST` - Hostname (or IP address) + port of OVE core
```

Presumably the user can specify a port in conjunction with either a hostname or IP address?

Author: Yes, that's a miss.

* `TUORIS_HOST` - Hostname (or IP address + port) of the [Tuoris](https://github.com/fvictor/tuoris) service (dependency of SVG application).

> Listed below are the environment variables that can be configured before installing [**OVE Asset Services**](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before installing [**OVE Asset Services**](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) you must set the environment variables:
```

> Listed below are the environment variables that can be configured before installing [**OVE Asset Services**](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services):

Reviewer: It would be helpful to separate out the values that must be set (e.g., `ServiceHostUrl`), and those that have sensible defaults (e.g. `MYSQL_USER`)

Author: Everything will have sensible defaults moving forwards: see ove/ove-install#13. It is wrong to expect all users to keep filling these values for the basic installation. They need to provide the bare minimum.

> * `MYSQL_RANDOM_ROOT_PASSWORD` - This variable is mandatory and must always be set to `yes`. This will generate a random initial password for the root user on the [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/) database.

Reviewer: Is this true? Can't the user instead chose a specific password, and expose it as `MYSQL_ROOT_PASSWORD`?

We should perhaps say "we **recommend** it be set to 'yes'".

Author: You can either set a root password or make it random, in our installers we make it random, and if you do not set it to 'yes' it will fail to install. Given this is a disposable container holding system state rather than an externally administered DB, I am wondering whether you need to go into such a lot of details with regards to the MariaDB configuration. But I can link to the configuration options as a resolution.

Reviewer 2: They can choose to use the root user with a well-chosen password, but it's bad practice. I agree with you that his is our recommendation rather than something we enforce.

Author: I have changed the text accordingly to read as  "we recommend it be set to 'yes'".

* `s3Client__ServiceURL` - The service URL of the [S3](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Amazon.S3/) compliant object storage as described in the [Asset Manager documentation](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/blob/master/packages/ove-asset-manager/README.md#configuration).
* `ServiceHostUrl` - Hostname (or IP address + port) of the corresponding Asset Management Service.
* `MariaDB__ConnectionString` - The connection string used by the [Asset Manager](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/tree/master/packages/ove-asset-manager) to connect to [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/) database. The format of the connection string must always be similar to what is provided, but the port number, database name, username and password must change accordingly if their default values were changed.
* `AssetManagerHostUrl` - Hostname (or IP address + port) of the [Asset Manager](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/tree/master/packages/ove-asset-manager).

### Running the Docker Compose builds

OVE provides separate installers to help users install the necessary components. To install the core components of OVE run:

```sh

> SERVICE_VERSION="latest" docker-compose -f docker-compose.ove.yml create

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker-compose -f docker-compose.ove.yml up -d
```
docker-compose create is deprecated. The service version is not required because we'll always have a version bound on the install scripts.

```

To install the [**OVE Asset Services**](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) run:

```sh

> SERVICE_VERSION="latest" docker-compose -f docker-compose.assets.yml create

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker-compose -f docker-compose.assets.yml up -d
```

```

> Once the installation procedure has completed, the successful installation of OVE can be verified by accessing the [OVE Core API Documentation](http://OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT/api-docs) on a web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the installation procedure has completed, the successful installation of OVE can be verified by accessing the [OVE Core API Documentation](http://OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT/api-docs) with a web browser.
```

### Starting and stopping OVE

To start the Docker runtime run:

```sh

> SERVICE_VERSION="latest" docker-compose -f docker-compose.assets.yml up -d

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker-compose -f docker-compose.assets.yml up -d
```

```

To stop the Docker runtime run:

```sh

> SERVICE_VERSION="latest" docker-compose -f docker-compose.assets.yml down

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
docker-compose -f docker-compose.assets.yml down
```

```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To check the docker logs of a service you can run: docker logs <service-name> (pressing **tab** before the service name should list the available services.
```

Reviewer: I think this requires you have something configured to do autocompletion (otherwise the tab just lists files in the roking directory).

Running `docker ps` is a more general way to list services.

Author: Tab expansion does not work on MacOS. I have already resolved by including few lines on running docker ps and explaining how to obtain logs. Also added how to obtain logs on PM2.

To clean-up the Docker runtime first stop any active instances and then run:

```sh
docker system prune
docker volume prune
```

## Installation by downloading and compiling source code

> All OVE projects use a build system based on [Lerna](https://lernajs.io/). [**OVE Asset Services**](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) are based on [.NET Core](https://github.com/dotnet/core). All other OVE projects are based on [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) and are compiled with [Babel](http://babeljs.io/) and deployed on a [PM2](http://pm2.keymetrics.io/) runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All OVE projects use a build system based on [Lerna](https://lernajs.io/). [**OVE Asset Services**](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) are based on [.NET Core](https://github.com/dotnet/core). All other OVE projects are based on [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/), compiled with [Babel](http://babeljs.io/), and deployed on a [PM2](http://pm2.keymetrics.io/) runtime.
```

### Prerequisites

* [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
* [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) (v8.0+)
* [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/)

> * [NPX](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx): `npm install -global npx`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [NPX](https://www.npmjs.com/package/npx) (install with the command `npm install -global npx`)
```

And similarly for PM2 and Lerna

* [PM2](http://pm2.keymetrics.io/): `npm install -global pm2`
* [Lerna](https://lernajs.io/):  `npm install -global lerna`

> Compiling source code for the Docker runtime also require:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Compiling source code for the Docker runtime also requires:
```

> Compiling source code for the Docker runtime also require:

Reviewer: I would say that it *only* requires Docker and Docker Compose, as OVE's dependencies are automatically downloaded and installed inside the Docker container when the Dockerfile is run.

Author: Build script builds locally first. Also, some people may want to build locally not using the build script and then build it for Docker as well. This is highly subjective and can be very confusing to explain the scenarios separately. It would be better for them to install all the tools they require to develop locally, since this is the intended audience for this type of installation.

* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started)
* [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

> Building [**OVE Asset Services**](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) also require:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Building [**OVE Asset Services**](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) also requires:
```

* `s3Client__ServiceURL` - The service URL of the [S3](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Amazon.S3/) compliant object storage as described in the [Asset Manager documentation](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/blob/master/packages/ove-asset-manager/README.md#configuration).
* `ServiceHostUrl` - Hostname (or IP address) + port of the corresponding Asset Management Service.
* `MariaDB__ConnectionString` - The connection string used by the [Asset Manager](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/tree/master/packages/ove-asset-manager) to connect to [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/) database. The format of the connection string must always be similar to what is provided, but the port number, database name, username and password must change accordingly if their default values were changed.
* `AssetManagerHostUrl` - Hostname (or IP address) + port of the [Asset Manager](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/tree/master/packages/ove-asset-manager).

### Starting and stopping OVE

> OVE provides separate installers to help users install the necessary components. To install and start OVE on Docker run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OVE [provides separate installers](https://github.com/ove/ove-install/) to help users install the necessary components. To install and start OVE on Docker run:
```

Author: That is not the intended purpose of this line. We want users to understand they have separate installers in the source that they have already checked out. Above, we provide instructions to download the installers. I will reword as `OVE provides separate installation scripts to help users install the necessary components`. The use of the term `installer` seems to be misleading.

```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose.ove.yml up -d
```

Replace the `-d` option above with `--no-start` if you want to install OVE but do not want to start it at the end of the installation process.

> Once the installation procedure has completed, the successful installation of OVE can be verified by accessing the [OVE Core API Documentation](http://OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT/api-docs) using a web browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the installation procedure has completed, the successful installation of OVE can be verified by accessing the OVE Core API Documentation (located at `http://OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT/api-docs) using a web browser.
```

It is better to write out the URL: clicking the link won't work because the hostname and port number need to be replaced

* [NetVips](https://github.com/kleisauke/net-vips)
* [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/)

The [SVG App](https://github.com/ove/ove-apps/tree/master/packages/ove-app-svg) requires:

* [Tuoris](https://github.com/fvictor/tuoris) (installation instructions available on GitHub repository)

### Downloading source code

All OVE projects can be downloaded from their GitHub repositories:

* OVE Core: [master](https://github.com/ove/ove) | [releases](https://github.com/ove/ove/releases)
* OVE Apps: [master](https://github.com/ove/ove-apps) | [releases](https://github.com/ove/ove-apps/releases)
* OVE Services: [master](https://github.com/ove/ove-services) | [releases](https://github.com/ove/ove-services/releases)
* OVE Asset Services: [master](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) | [releases](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/releases)

The `master` branch of each repository contains the latest code, and can also be cloned if you intend to contribute code or fix issues:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/ove/ove
```

Once the source code has been downloaded OVE can be installed either onto a PM2 runtime or a Docker runtime. The two approaches are explained below.

> ### Compiling source code for the PM2 runtime using Lerna

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Compiling source code using Lerna without Docker
```

"for the PM2 runtime" might cause confusion for novice users, who might think that this step compiles the code of pm2 itself.

Author: I don't expect this to be a concern. Line above reads: `Once the source code has been downloaded OVE can be installed either onto a PM2 runtime or a Docker runtime` and this follows. We have a similar title for Docker below. We also don't say `of the PM2 runtime`. I'm not taking in this suggestion, therefore.

Reviewer: Another reason that I dislike this title is that PM2 is actually used as the process manager whether or not it is run inside Docker.

Author: That point is valid, but the user is either running their code locally on a PM2 runtime, or locally on a Docker runtime, which has been explained clearly in the docs. I think we can be explicit about it without being vague. You don't run anything on Lerna, you build it. Likewise, you will be running something on PM2, so it is worth telling it. They also have a choice of using a separate runtime locally, however, if they are using our Dockerfiles, they don't have a choice of changing what runs inside Docker (actually that is also not their concern). So, I see nothing wrong in this description.

Author: I'm resolving this conversation based on the explanation above.

> Once you have cloned or downloaded the code OVE can be compiled using the [Lerna](https://lernajs.io/) build system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have cloned or downloaded the code, OVE can be compiled using the [Lerna](https://lernajs.io/) build system:
```

```sh
cd ove
lerna bootstrap --hoist
lerna run clean
lerna run build
lerna run test
```

Instructions above are only provided for the [**OVE Core**](https://github.com/ove/ove) repository. The steps to follow are similar for other repositories.

#### Starting and stopping OVE

The SVG app requires an instance of [Tuoris](https://github.com/fvictor/tuoris) to be available before starting it:

```sh
pm2 start index.js -f -n "tuoris" -- -p PORT -i 1
```

To start the PM2 environment run:

```sh
OVE_HOST="OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT" TUORIS_HOST="TUORIS_HOST:PORT" pm2 start pm2.json
```

Once the services have started, you can check their status by running:

```sh
pm2 status
```

Then, to check logs of all services, run:

```sh
pm2 logs
```

To stop the PM2 environment run:

```sh
pm2 stop pm2.json
```

To clean-up the PM2 environment run:

```sh
pm2 delete pm2.json
```

> ### Compiling source code for the Docker runtime using build.sh scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Compiling source code inside Docker using build.sh scripts
```

Author: As also explained earlier, this does not run entirely inside docker.

The deployment environment needs to be [pre-configured](#configuring-the-environment) before running these scripts.

To start the Docker runtime run:

```sh
SERVICE_VERSION="latest" docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d
```

Once the services have started, you can check their status by running:

```sh
docker ps
```

The `ps` command will list containers along with their `CONTAINER_ID`. Then, to check logs of an individual container, run:

```sh
docker logs <CONTAINER_ID>
```

To stop the Docker runtime run:

```sh
SERVICE_VERSION="latest" docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml down
```

To clean-up the Docker runtime first stop any active instances and then run:

```sh
docker system prune
docker volume prune
```

## Running OVE

It is recommended to use OVE with Google Chrome, as this is the web browser used for development and in production at the [Data Science Institute](http://www.imperial.ac.uk/data-science/). However, it should also be compatible with other modern web browsers: if you encounter any browser-specific bugs please [report them as an Issue](https://github.com/ove/ove-apps/issues).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For details of how to use OVE, see the [Usage page](./USAGE).

```

> Run in Chrome:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installation, OVE will expose several resources that can be accessed through a web browser:
```

Reviewer: I suggest re-phrasing this, as someone might think that it is necessary to open these URLs in Chrome in order to "run OVE".

> * App Control page   `http://OVE_APP_MAPS_HOST:PORT/control.html?oveSectionId=0`

Reviewer: Should refer to the host for the specific app of interest (which is not necessarily Maps):

```suggestion
* App Control page   `http://OVE_APP_HOST:PORT/control.html?oveSectionId=0`
```

# Installing OVE

OVE needs to be installed before it can be used to control a display. OVE can be installed either by downloading and compiling the source code of the corresponding components or by running a specific installer available on the [**OVE Install**](https://github.com/ove/ove-install/) repository.

All contributors to OVE are encouraged to download and compile the source code. All users of OVE are encouraged to use the OVE installers.

> ## Installation by running OVE installers

Reviewer 3: I would prefer
## Installation using Docker

These are step by step instructions of the quick installer from  [**OVE Install**](https://github.com/ove/ove-install/)

Author: I have explained this to @jamesscottbrown as well. Though currently the installer uses Docker compose that targets a Docker standalone installation, this may change in the future, and we need to keep top-level titles generic - this is why this has been kept as such. The instructions are detaled and therefore, I see no issues in having this title.

[**OVE Install**](https://github.com/ove/ove-install/) scripts are designed to install OVE into a [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started) environment.

### Prerequisites

* [git](https://git-scm.com/downloads)
* [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started)
* [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

### Configuring the environment

The deployment environment needs to be pre-configured before running the OVE installers. This involves setting up ports and environment variables.

The ports are pre-configured to a list of common defaults, but can be changed based on end-user requirements. Each port or port-range is defined as a mapping `HOST_PORT:CONTAINER_PORT`. Only the host ports can be changed, and it is important to note that **container ports must not be changed**.

> #### Environment variables

Reviewer 3: I find it odd that we tell people how to run `docker ps` however do not tell them how to set an Environmental variable... especially as setting the host OS environmental variables will **not** work

If using Docker-compose, these are edited in the .yml files

> Before installing OVE you must configure the environment variables:

Reviewer 3: found in the docker-compose.ove.yml file

* `OVE_HOST` - Hostname (or IP address) + port of OVE core
* `TUORIS_HOST` - Hostname (or IP address) + port of the [Tuoris](https://github.com/fvictor/tuoris) service (dependency of SVG application).

> Before installing [**OVE Asset Services**](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) you must configure the environment variables:

Reviewer 3: found in the docker-compose.assets.yml file

* `s3Client__ServiceURL` - The service URL of the [S3](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Amazon.S3/) compliant object storage as described in the [Asset Manager documentation](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/blob/master/packages/ove-asset-manager/README.md#configuration).
* `ServiceHostUrl` - Hostname (or IP address) + port of the corresponding Asset Management Service.
* `MariaDB__ConnectionString` - The connection string used by the [Asset Manager](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/tree/master/packages/ove-asset-manager) to connect to [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/) database. The format of the connection string must always be similar to what is provided, but the port number, database name, username and password must change accordingly if their default values were changed.
* `AssetManagerHostUrl` - Hostname (or IP address) + port of the [Asset Manager](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/tree/master/packages/ove-asset-manager).

> ### Starting and stopping OVE

Reviewer 3: This does not start or stop OVE - this starts or stops the container that contains OVE.
This is an important distinction for when determining whether OVE has crashed for health checks, it is not enough to see the status of the container

Reviewer 3: Additionally, for clarification, the docker-compose command is used to both configure **and** start the environment, whilst using `--no-start`` is using to configure without starting

OVE provides separate installation scripts to help users install the necessary components. To install and start OVE on Docker run:

```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose.ove.yml up -d
```

> Replace the `-d` option above with `--no-start` if you want to install OVE but do not want to start it at the end of the installation process.

Reviewer 3: A better option for documentation is always right out the full command explaining what it does.
So this should read
"If you wish to install OVE without it automatically starting, use the command"
```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose.ove.yml up --no-start
```

Reviewer 3: Personally I would actually use the --no-start option as default, with a `docker run` command, and include the auto-start as an alternative

Author: I too had the viewpoint of having --no-start as the default, but @oserban was saying this was the general approach in the docker-compose world. But, thinking broadly, since this is not meant to be the approach for deploying on K8S etc in the future, we should potentially make auto-start an alternative. @oserban do you agree?

Author: @DavidAkroyd, following an offline discussion, the ordering of the two instructions as it stands now does not require us to give either approach prominence. So, I have kept @oserban's suggestion as-is.

> Once the installation procedure has completed, the successful installation of OVE can be verified by accessing the OVE Core API Documentation (located at: `http://OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT/api-docs`) using a web browser.

Reviewer 3: We never set `OVE_CORE_HOST` - I think you mean `OVE_HOST`

Author: We have `OVE_HOST=OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT` previously. It will not make sense to call that `OVE_HOST=OVE_HOST:PORT` or call this `OVE_HOST`. I was stuck for options when I ended up doing this. The way out of this would be to rename the environment variable to `OVE_URL` and follow the same convention for other environment variables.

Author: This is something the user needs to substitute before they access, not something replaced by the OVE_HOST environment variable that was set previously. I have clarified already in the doc.

To install and start [**OVE Asset Services**](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) on Docker run:

```sh
docker-compose -f docker-compose.assets.yml up -d
```

Once the services have started, you can check their status by running:

```sh
docker ps
```

The `ps` command will list containers along with their `CONTAINER_ID`. Then, to check logs of an individual container, run:

```sh

> docker logs <CONTAINER_ID>

Reviewer 3: We should note this retrieves the pm2 logs

Author: Based on how docker logs work, this retrieves all logs. This includes PM2, .NET, and even anything else generated when running the corresponding docker CMD/ENTRYPOINT, or anything written to `stdout` and `stderr` while the container is operational. It will be incorrect to say PM2 logs.

Building [**OVE Asset Services**](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) also requires:

* [.NET Core SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-core/2.1)
* [NetVips](https://github.com/kleisauke/net-vips)
* [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/)

The [SVG App](https://github.com/ove/ove-apps/tree/master/packages/ove-app-svg) requires:

* [Tuoris](https://github.com/fvictor/tuoris) (installation instructions available on GitHub repository)

### Downloading source code

All OVE projects can be downloaded from their GitHub repositories:

* OVE Core: [master](https://github.com/ove/ove) | [releases](https://github.com/ove/ove/releases)
* OVE Apps: [master](https://github.com/ove/ove-apps) | [releases](https://github.com/ove/ove-apps/releases)
* OVE Services: [master](https://github.com/ove/ove-services) | [releases](https://github.com/ove/ove-services/releases)
* OVE Asset Services: [master](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) | [releases](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/releases)

The `master` branch of each repository contains the latest code, and can also be cloned if you intend to contribute code or fix issues:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/ove/ove
```

> Once the source code has been downloaded OVE can be installed either onto a PM2 runtime or a Docker runtime. The two approaches are explained below.

Reviewer 3: This is not "either/or". Docker is not a runtime here, it is a container for pm2

> ### Compiling source code for the PM2 runtime

Reviewer 3: This is not purely for the pm2 runtime - nodejs should run this as well
This should just read as compiling the source code

Once you have cloned or downloaded the code, OVE can be compiled using the [Lerna](https://lernajs.io/) build system:

```sh
cd ove
lerna bootstrap --hoist
lerna run clean
lerna run build
lerna run test
```

Instructions above are only provided for the [**OVE Core**](https://github.com/ove/ove) repository. The steps to follow are similar for other repositories.

> #### Starting and stopping OVE

Reviewer 3: Maybe a comment that we use pm2 as a process manager

The SVG app requires an instance of [Tuoris](https://github.com/fvictor/tuoris) to be available before starting it:

> 

Reviewer 3: Please add:
`To start tuoris, we can use`

```sh
pm2 start index.js -f -n "tuoris" -- -p PORT -i 1
```

> To start the PM2 environment run:

Reviewer 3: This is not starting the pm2 environment - this is either:
Starting OVE in the pm2 environment
or
Starting OVE with the pm2 runtime

Reviewer: or 'Starting OVE with the pm2 process manager'

```sh

> OVE_HOST="OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT" TUORIS_HOST="TUORIS_HOST:PORT" pm2 start pm2.json

Reviewer 3: Since we have not added an environmental variables section in this installer, we probably need to define what `OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT` is, as well as ensure that EV placeholders are consistent with the whole document

```

Once the services have started, you can check their status by running:

```sh
pm2 status
```

Then, to check logs of all services, run:

```sh
pm2 logs
```

To stop the PM2 environment run:

```sh
pm2 stop pm2.json
```

To clean-up the PM2 environment run:

```sh
pm2 delete pm2.json
```

### Compiling source code for the Docker runtime

> This approach only works for Linux and MacOS environments. The `build.sh` script corresponding to each repository can be found under the top most folder of the cloned or downloaded repository or within a `packages/PACKAGE_NAME` folder corresponding to each package.

Reviewer 3: Why? We can state that there will be issues in Windows

Author: `build.sh` doesn't work on windows as-is, hence this note. There is already an issue to create a build.bat (ove/ove-install#5)

Reviewer 3: So surely this should read
This approach only **currently** works for Linux and MacOS
The approach does not have any flaw for Windows, it just doesn't exist yet

Author: reworded to: `This approach currently works only for Linux and MacOS environments.`

The `build.sh` script can be executed as:

```sh
cd ove
./build.sh
```

Instructions above are only provided for the [**OVE Core**](https://github.com/ove/ove) repository. The steps to follow are similar for other repositories.

> #### Starting and stopping OVE

Reviewer 3: If we define how to run on docker (as suggested above) then we can remove this as a duplicate instruction, and rather just point to Step X. on the running on docker

Author: The docker compose scripts are not identical in the two steps, so they cannot be cross referenced for convinience.

To start the Docker runtime run:

```sh
SERVICE_VERSION="latest" docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml up -d
```

Once the services have started, you can check their status by running:

```sh
docker ps
```

The `ps` command will list containers along with their `CONTAINER_ID`. Then, to check logs of an individual container, run:

```sh
docker logs <CONTAINER_ID>
```

To stop the Docker runtime run:

```sh
SERVICE_VERSION="latest" docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml down
```

To clean-up the Docker runtime first stop any active instances and then run:

```sh
docker system prune
docker volume prune
```

## Running OVE

It is recommended to use OVE with Google Chrome, as this is the web browser used for development and in production at the [Data Science Institute](http://www.imperial.ac.uk/data-science/). However, it should also be compatible with other modern web browsers: if you encounter any browser-specific bugs please [report them as an Issue](https://github.com/ove/ove-apps/issues).

For details of how to use OVE, see the [Usage](./USAGE.md) page.

After installation, OVE will expose several resources that can be accessed through a web browser:

> * App Control page   `http://OVE_APP_HOST:PORT/control.html?oveSectionId=0`

Reviewer 3: As above, we need to be consistent with placeholder variables

Author: Above is accurate as it does not always equal `OVE_HOST`.

Author: Further explanation WRT default values is also provided beneath this block.

> * OVE client pages   `http://OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT/view.html?oveViewId=LocalNine-0` (check [`Spaces.json`](https://github.com/ove/ove/blob/master/packages/ove-core/src/client/Spaces.json) for more information)

Reviewer 3: If you use a sub bullet point, this would make this easier to read
So:
```
* Point
 [tab] + Second point
```

Leads to

* OVE client pages   `http://OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT/view.html?oveViewId=LocalNine-0`
&ensp; + (check [`Spaces.json`](https://github.com/ove/ove/blob/master/packages/ove-core/src/client/Spaces.json) for more information)

* OVE JS library     `http://OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT/ove.js`
* OVE API docs       `http://OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT/api-docs`

> By default OVE core, all apps and all services run on `localhost`, which should be used as a substitution for `*_HOST` names above. The default `PORT` numbers are:

Reviewer 3: To help this statement make more sense at first reading, can we add an Oxford comma @jamesscottbrown ? :)
`By default OVE core, all apps, and all services run on localhost`

Author: That makes sense, :).

Reviewer: There should also be a comma after "By default"

# Installing OVE

OVE needs to be installed before it can be used to control a display. OVE can be installed either by downloading and compiling the source code of the corresponding components or by running a specific installer available on the [**OVE Install**](https://github.com/ove/ove-install/) repository.

All contributors to OVE are encouraged to download and compile the source code. All users of OVE are encouraged to use the OVE installers.

> ## Installation by running OVE installers

Reviewer: I still think that "Installation using Docker" is a better title. We don't really have an *installer* at present - we have a *`docker-compose` file*: if our installation process changes in future, we can change the title **at that point**. The contents of this section will inevitably have to change then, so also changing the title will not be a problem.

There is no benefit to making the title "more generic" if there aren't actually any installation methods that fit within the more generic title but not within the more specific title.

The use of Docker *is* a useful thing to signpost here, as people installing OVE may have reasons why they  want to use or avoid Docker.

Reviewer: But if you still disagree I'll let this go.

Author: James, let me explain this at length, so that we can settle this debate.

Firstly, it is wrong to say `Installation using Docker` as that is not what we are doing here. We are downloading pre-built docker images as a collection of layers and installing OVE into a docker environment such that it can run just like anything else within a docker environment. We do not install anything using docker in the process. Docker compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container docker applications (according to their docs) so we are in fact `Defining and running the OVE Docker application`. 

Now, all of this jargon would be understood by someone who understands docker but not by the average person reading this document. This is the basis of my choice of title. They select the approach that suits them based on (a) are they using OVE or (b) are they developing OVE.

I think it is wrong to not treat the docker compose file(s) as an installer. Docker compose works cross platform, and some of our dependencies do not work very well outside of a Docker environment, so we do not have much of a choice at this point. Of course, we can improve the installation experience, but that may still not present us with a better option due to some of the design choices we have made. So, not much will change.

So, I'm actually deliberately pushing for this title so that we have a clear separation or (a) are you interested in using an installer or (b) are you looking at compiling the source code.

Then, to avoid any ambiguity, the very next line under that title already reads, `OVE Install scripts are designed to install OVE into a Docker environment`. This will help anyone avoid proceeding any further with this approach, should they not like it.

So, the pros of changing this are along the lines of us admitting that we don't actually have an installer (which I think is incorrect) and the cons are along the lines of a user being utterly confused and opting to build the source code the moment they see the word Docker (which is synonymous with complexity).

So, I see no benefit and even worse, it could confuse/mislead users.

So, with the above in mind, the content will certainly change but title need not change unless we are changing the whole concept of an installer. The title can stay the same if the concept of an OVE installer will not change.

I would not mind changing the title to what you suggest if you had a much stronger argument. But, so far I am not convinced that this will help a potential user in anyway, and that is why I don't like changing it.

Reviewer: > Firstly, it is wrong to say Installation using Docker as that is not what we are doing here

Ok: I adopted this phrasing from @DavidAkroyd's suggestion. I think my original suggestion of  "Installation from pre-built Docker images" is more accurate. Perhaps "**Using** pre-built Docker images" is best.

> Docker compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container docker applications (according to their docs) so we are in fact Defining and running the OVE Docker application.

Yes: "Defining and running the OVE Docker application" is not "Installation by running OVE installers".

> So, I'm actually deliberately pushing for this title so that we have a clear separation or (a) are you interested in using an installer or (b) are you looking at compiling the source code.

As I have said previously, I think the important distinction is between using *pre-built images* and *compiling the source code* (rather than between "using an installer" and *compiling the source code*). This is why I has suggested "Installation from pre-built Docker images" (or "Using pre-built Docker images").

> So, the pros of changing this are along the lines of us admitting that we don't actually have an installer (which I think is incorrect)

No. We would not be explicitly saying that we do not have an installer.

The main advantages would actually be emphasizing the using *pre-built images* /*compiling the source code* distinction, which is meaningful, rather than the "using an installer" aspect, which is not (compiling from source also uses a script, `build.sh`, and it is not obvious from the title alone that "using the installer" does not compile from source). 

> the cons are along the lines of a user being utterly confused and opting to build the source code the moment they see the word Docker (which is synonymous with complexity).

I disagree with this. As you have said, the name Docker appears in the instructions in the subsection, so if this is enough to scare a potential user off then they will be driven away regardless. 

I do not see what confusion you expect to result from the title "**Using** pre-built Docker images", especially if a sentence at the start of the document says that this is recommended for OVE users, and that building from source is recommended for developers of OVE.

I also think that Docker is more synonymous with *hiding complexity* than with *complexity*, but this is perhaps a matter of opinion.

Author: @jamesscottbrown, agree, it seems to be a matter of opinion.

* `s3Client__ServiceURL` - The service URL of the [S3](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Amazon.S3/) compliant object storage as described in the [Asset Manager documentation](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/blob/master/packages/ove-asset-manager/README.md#configuration).
* `ServiceHostUrl` - Hostname (or IP address) + port of the corresponding Asset Management Service.
* `MariaDB__ConnectionString` - The connection string used by the [Asset Manager](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/tree/master/packages/ove-asset-manager) to connect to [MariaDB](https://mariadb.org/) database. The format of the connection string must always be similar to what is provided, but the port number, database name, username and password must change accordingly if their default values were changed.
* `AssetManagerHostUrl` - Hostname (or IP address) + port of the [Asset Manager](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/tree/master/packages/ove-asset-manager).

> ### Starting and stopping Docker runtime for OVE

Reviewer: "OVE Docker containers" would be more natural than "Docker runtime for OVE"

Author: Reworded. We starting OVE either as a Docker application or as a set of Docker containers depending on the approach we take.

* OVE Apps: [master](https://github.com/ove/ove-apps) | [releases](https://github.com/ove/ove-apps/releases)
* OVE Services: [master](https://github.com/ove/ove-services) | [releases](https://github.com/ove/ove-services/releases)
* OVE Asset Services: [master](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services) | [releases](https://github.com/ove/ove-asset-services/releases)

The `master` branch of each repository contains the latest code, and can also be cloned if you intend to contribute code or fix issues:

```sh
git clone https://github.com/ove/ove
```

Once the source code has been downloaded OVE can be installed either on a local Node.js environment (such as PM2's Node.js environment) or within a Docker environment. The two approaches are explained below.

### Compiling source code for a local Node.js environment

Once you have cloned or downloaded the code, OVE can be compiled using the [Lerna](https://lernajs.io/) build system:

```sh
cd ove
lerna bootstrap --hoist
lerna run clean
lerna run build
lerna run test
```

Instructions above are only provided for the [**OVE Core**](https://github.com/ove/ove) repository. The steps to follow are similar for other repositories.

> #### Starting and stopping PM2 process manager

Reviewer: This doesn't start/stop pm2, but rather stops *processes that are being managed by* pm2

The SVG app requires an instance of [Tuoris](https://github.com/fvictor/tuoris) to be available before starting it. To start Tuoris run:

```sh
pm2 start index.js -f -n "tuoris" -- -p PORT -i 1
```

> OVE can then be started within the PM2 environment by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OVE can then be started using the PM2 process manager by running:
```

```sh
OVE_HOST="OVE_CORE_HOST:PORT" TUORIS_HOST="TUORIS_HOST:PORT" pm2 start pm2.json
```

> By default, OVE core, and all services run on `localhost`, which should be used in place of `OVE_CORE_HOST` and `TUORIS_HOST` names above. The default `PORT` numbers for OVE core and Tuoris are provided in the [Running OVE](#running-ove) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, OVE core and all services run on `localhost`, which should be used in place of `OVE_CORE_HOST` and `TUORIS_HOST` names above. The default `PORT` numbers for OVE core and Tuoris are provided in the [Running OVE](#running-ove) section.
```

Once the services have started, you can check their status by running:

```sh
pm2 status
```

Then, to check logs of all services, run:

```sh
pm2 logs
```

> To stop the PM2 environment run:

Reviewer: As before, this stops the *processes being managed by pm2* that are specified in `pm2.json`.

```sh
pm2 stop pm2.json
```

To clean-up the PM2 environment run:

```sh
pm2 delete pm2.json
```

### Compiling source code for a Docker environment

> This approach currently works only for Linux and MacOS environments. The `build.sh` script corresponding to each repository can be found under the top most folder of the cloned or downloaded repository or within a `packages/PACKAGE_NAME` folder corresponding to each package.

Reviewer: I think that approach is expect to work for ~~all~~ most unix-like operating systems, but has been tested only on Linux and MacOS.

Author: "**most** unix-like operating systems" is vague. Unix-like is much broader than Unix to start with an even in the Unix domain, some functions such as readlink are not available in some Solaris versions. So, (at least personally), I would rather not go there with our docs.
